# AWS / Storage / S3

This documentation describes how to use [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) cloud storage,

* [Introduction](#itroduction)
* [Storing Files on S3](#storing-files-on-s3)
* [Hosting a Public Static Website on S3](#hosting-a-public-static-website-on-s3)
* [Hosting a Content Delivery Network](#hosting-a-content-delivery-network)

-------------

## Introduction ##

[AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) provides cloud storage at costs that are generally low compared to other options,
pennies or dollars a month for small implementations.
S3 is useful because it provides an off-site, cloud-hosted, redundant copy of files
that can be accessed by multiple users and applications on multiple devices via Amazon's industry-strength cloud infrastructure.
Uses of S3 include:

* Folder-based cloud storage for an organization's files
* Access via AWS console web application, command line tools, and web services
* Can serve as backups (see also [Amazon S3 Glacier](https://aws.amazon.com/glacier/) for long-term storage)
* Ability to create content delivery networks (CDNs) using static websites and services such
as [Cloudfront](../../cdn/cloudfront/cloudfront.md)

The hierarchy of services is:

```
CloudFront
  uses:  S3
```

See the following S3 resources:

* [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) webpage

## Storing Files on S3 ##

S3 is a cloud storage solution.
An organization with an AWS account can use S3 to store files in the cloud.
Users within the organization with appropriate permissions can create buckets, folders, and files on S3.
Non-human (robot) users can be defined to automate tasks.

At a top level, organizations can create "buckets", which are web-addressable,
internet-unique containers for folders and files.

* The maximum number of buckets per AWS account is 100 by default, which can be increased by request,
or use multiple accounts.  Consequently, it is important to be thoughtful about top-level buckets.
For example, use a top level bucket with name including "projects", "clients", "products", etc., and separate folders under each,
in order to scale.

* On AWS, buckets use [Amazon Resource Names (ARNs)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html) to identify
buckets, for example `arn:aws:s3:::some-bucket`.  An equivalent URL is also created by AWS to access resources on S3.
Note that the bucket name is a simple string and
must be unique within AWS.  Consequently, the first organization that claims a bucket name will result in other organizations
**not** being able to use that bucket name.  Therefore, for uniqueness, it is typical that the
bucket name will contain the organization's account number, organization name, or variation of internet domain.
Using sub-domains of the organization's internet domain is useful for creating buckets for static websites
(see [Hosting a Static Website on S3](#hosting-a-static-website-on-s3) section).
Because static websites are a subdomain of an organization's domain,
the organization is in control of such buckets.

## Hosting a Public Static Website on S3 ##

S3 can be used to create a public static website.

See [Website / S3 Public Static Website](../../website/s3/s3.md).

## Hosting a Content Delivery Network ##

S3 can be used to store files in a content delivery network (CDN).

See [AWS / CDN / Overview ](../../cdn/overview.md).
